>>> ON THIS EDITION FOR SUNDAY
APRIL 27th, RUSSIAN SEPARATIST
IN UKRAINE PARADE THEIR HOSTAGES
AS PRESIDENT OBAMA CALLS FOR
INTERNATIONAL BACKING ON NEW
SANCTIONS AGAINST THE KREMLIN.
>>> IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT,I
MAING SENSE OF THE SHOWDOW
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND UKRAINE
THE LONG, COMPLICATED HISTOR
YOU MIGHT NOT HAVE HEARD AND THE
HOUSING RECOVERY SLOWS
WHAT IT MEANS FOR THE ECONOM
NEXT ON PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND".
FROM THE TISCH WNET CENTERS IN
NEW YORK THIS IS PBS NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND.
>> GOOD EVENING.
I'M ALISON STEWART
THE PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATIST
DISPLAYED UKRAINIANS HAD HIS MEN
RECENTLY TOOK HOSTAGE.
SEVEN OF THOSE BEING HELD AR
EUROPEAN OBSERVERS WHO THE
SEPARATISTS CLAIM, ARE A CHARG
REFUTED TODAY.
ALL APPEAR IN GOOD CONDITION
HOWEVER AN EIGHTH HOSTAGE WA
RELEASED ON MEDICAL GROUNDS LATE
IN THE DAY
IN ADDITION, THREE UKRAINIAN
SECURITY OFFICERS BEING HELD B
SEPARATISTS WERE ALSO PUT ON
DISPLAY.
THEY WERE BLINDFOLD, BLOODIE
AND STRIPPED OF THEIR SHOES.
THE MEN TRAVELED FROM CRIMEA
THE SEPARATISTS SEIZED CONTROL
OF THE OFFICE OF REGIONAL STAT
TELEVISION IN OORN UKRAINE
THREE WEEKS AGO THEY SEIZE
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS IN TE
CITIES IN EASTERN UKRAINE AN
HAVE HELD THEM EVER SINCE.
TODAY WHILE IN MALAYSIA,
PRESIDENT OBAMA URGE
INTERNATIONAL BACKING FO
ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS AGAINST THE
KREMLIN WHICH THE OBAM
ADMINISTRATION BELIEVES IS
SUPPORTING THE SEPARATISTS
>> SO LONG AS RUSSIA CONTINUES
DOWN THE PATH OF PROVOCATION
RATHER THAN TRYING TO RESOLV
THIS ISSUE PEACEFULLY AN
DEESCALATING, THERE WILL B
CONSEQUENCES AND THOSE
CONSEQUENCES WILL CONTINUE T
GROW
>> DURING HIS TALKS IN MALAYSI
TODAY, PRESIDENT OBAMA URGED
MALAYSIAN LEADERS TO RESPECT
HUMAN RIGHTS AND THE PRESIDENT
CHOSE NOT TO MEET WITH A
OPPOSITION LEADER CONVICTED ON
WHAT THEY SAY WAS TRUMPED UP
CHARGES.
THEY CONCLUDED THE TRIP WITH A
VISIT TO THE PHILIPPINES
TOMORROW, THERE HE'S EXPECTED TO
ANNOUNCE A NEW TEN-YEAR SECURITY
PACT
THE DEAL WILL ALLOW FOR GREATE
MILITARY PRESENCE IN THE COUNTRY
AND THERE ARE INCREASING
TENSIONS BETWEEN CHINA AND THE
PHILIPPINES.
ELSEWHERE IN ASIA, THE PRIME
MINISTER OF SOUTH KOREA HA
RESIGNED ACCEPTING
RESPONSIBILITY FOR WHAT TH
CRITICS SAY WAS THE GOVERNMENT'S
SLOW RESPONSE TO THE FERRY
DISASTER
THE DEATH COUNT IS 147 AND MOR
THAN A HUNDRED OTHERS AR
MISSING AND PRESUMED DEAD.
HE SAID, QUOTING NOW, THE CRIE
OF THE FAMILIES OF THOSE MISSING
STILL KEEP ME UP AT NIGHT.
IN SOUTH KOREA THE ROLE OF THE
PRIME MINISTER IS LARGEL
CEREMONIAL
IT WAS A HFTORRIC DAY AT THE
VATICAN, FOR THE FIRST TIME TW
POPES WERE CANONIZED AS SAINTS
TOGETHER AND TWO LIVING POPE
WERE THERE FOR THE OCCASION.
THE EXTRAORDINARY EVENT WA
CELEBRATED BY HUNDREDS O
THOUSANDS WHO CRAMMED INTO THE
SQUARE
KORDELLIA REPORTS FROM VATICAN
CITY
♪♪
>> SOLEMNITY AND SAINTHOOD A
HISTORY IS MADE.
IN ST. PETER'S SQUARE.
IT WAS THE FIRST TIME TWO POPE
HAVE BEEN CANONIZED TOGETHER
CARRYING FIGURES OF THE 20th
CENTURY CHURCH CELEBRATED BY
HALF A MILLION PILGRIMS.
>> FOR YEARS POPE JOHN PAUL II
TOOK THE CHURCH TO THE ENDS OF
THE EARTH AND TODAY THE ENDS O
THE EARTH WILL COME BACK HERE.
>> THEY UNDERSTAND HOW GREAT
THIS IS TO RECOGNIZE TWO MEN I
THE CHURCH AND TWO GREAT POPES
AND THE CONTRIBUTION TO THE LIFE
OF THE CHURCH.
>> THIS WAS AN UNUSUAL, IF NOT
POLITICAL UNION, JOHN 23rd WAS
THE REFORMIST.
JOHN PAUL II, THE CONSERVATIVE
SOME VIEW THAT ELEVATED STATUS
AS AN ATTEMPT TO UNITE TWO
CAMPS.
>> SOME VIEW POPE FRANCIS AS
SKILLFULLY BALANCING THE
PAPACIES OF PAST AND PRESENT
THE MASS SAW HIM EMBRACE POP
BENEDICT XVI AND HE RETIRED LAST
YEAR AND HAS RARELY BEEN SEEN IN
PUBLIC
>> POPE FRANCIS BLESSED HIS TW
PREDECESSORS BEFORE PRAISING
THEM AS MEN OF COURAGE
ONE THE GLOBE-TROTTING
TRADITIONALISTS AND CREDITIN
HIM TO BRING DOWN COMMUNISM AN
THE OTHER ASSOCIATED WITH '60s
LIBERALISM
♪♪
>> SUCH IS THE POPULARITY OF
JOHN XXIII, THE CHURCH DROPPED
THE REQUIREMENT FOR TWO MIRACLES
AND SETTLED FOR ONE.
JOHN PAUL II'S RELIC WAS CARRIED
BY A COSTA RICAN WOMAN WHO
CLAIMS HE SAVED HER FROM A BRAIN
ANEURISM
>> POPE FRANCIS, DEEP AMONGS
THE CROWD IS PERHAPS ENCOURAGING
A NEW CHAPTER IN THE CHURCH BY
FORCING THE FAITHFUL TO SHAR
THEIR JOY FOR TWO VERY DIFFERENT
>> TODAY IS THE START OF
ISRAEL'S ANNUAL HOL WAUF
COMMEMORATION AND TO MARK TH
OCCASION THE PALESTINIAN LEADE
MAHMOUD ABBAS CALLED THE
HOLOCAUST THE MOST HEINOUS CRIME
AGAINST HUMANITY IN THE MODERN
ERA.
IT WAS INTERPRETED AS A GESTUR
TO ISRAEL, BUT ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYAH
ACCUSED ABBAS OF BEING WIT
HOLOCAUST DDENIERS
THEY ANNOUNCED NIGH NEW ALLIANCE
WITH HAMAS
>>> ELSEWHERE IN THE MIDDLE EAST
THE HEAD OF THE GROUP MONITORING
SYRIA'S COMPLIANCE TO DESTRO
THE CHEMICAL WEAPONS STOCKPILE
SAID TODAY MORE THAN 90% OF TH
WEAPONS HAVE BEEN DESTROYED.
UNDER TERMS OF THE AGREEMENT THE
DEADLINES OF THE COMPLET
ELIMINATION OF THE WEAPONS I
JUNE 30th.
INTERNATIONAL INSPECTORS STILL
HAVE NOT BEEN GIVEN ACCESS TO 12
SYRIAN WEAPONS PRODUCTIO
FACILITIES
THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS OF
CHLORINE GAS ATTACKS BETWEEN THE
ASSAD REGIME AND THE REBEL
SIERKING TO OUST HIM
THERE IS SEVERE WEATHER THIS
EVENING IN THE CENTRAL UNITE
STATES
HIGH WINDS TOPPLED A SEM
TRAVELING ALONG I-70 ABOUT 3
MILES EAST OF KANSAS CIT
MISSOURI AND A TORNADO TOUCHED
DOWN IN SOUTH CENTRAL NEBRASKA
OVER THE NEXT COUPLE OF DAYS THE
WEATHER CHANNEL FORECAST AND A
OUTBREAK OF SEVERE STORMS FROM
THE PLAINS DOWN TO EAST TEXA
AND FURTHER EAST IN PORTIONS O
MISSISSIPPI AND OHIO VALLEYS
EARLIER TODAY A MARATHON A
OKLAHOMA CITY DEDICATED TH
VICTIMS OF THE 1995 BOMBING WA
DELAYED DUE TO HAIL AND HIGH
WINDS.
THE OWNER OF THE LOS ANGELES
CLIPPERS BASKETBALL TEAM DID NOT
ATTEND THE PLAYOFF GAME AS THE
ATTRIBUTED RACIST COMMENTS
ATTRIBUTED TO HIM AND
STATEMENT REPORTEDLY MADE BY
DONALD STERLING WAS MADE BY TH
WEBSITE TMZ.
MOST OF THE PLAYERS AND TH
CLIPPERS ARE AFRICAN-AMERICANS
AS IS THE COACH.
THE CLIPPERS PLAYERS GATHERED AT
MIDCOURT AND MOVED THEIR
CLIPPERS WARM-UP JERSEYS AND
PRACTICED WITHOUT DISPLAYING THE
TEAM LOGO.
♪♪
>>>.
>>> FOR A FEW YEARS NOW WE'V
BEEN HEARING A GREAT DEAL ABOU
THE NATION'S HOUSING RECOVER
AND RECENT REPORTS THAT TREN
MIGHT BE SLOWING AND IF IT IS IT
COULD HAVE A SIGNIFICANT IMPAC
ON THE NATION'S OVERALL ECONOMIC
HEALTH
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS WE ARE
JOINED BY MICHELLE CONLIN, A
SENIOR CORRESPONDENT WIT
REUTERS.
MICHELLE, THE REPORTS EVERYONE
IS SORT OF TAKING A LOOK AT THEY
SAY THAT EXISTING HOME SALES ARE
AT THEIR LOWEST IN 18 MONTHS O
JULY 2012 AND NEW HOME SALES ARE
DOWN ABOUT 14% AS COMPARED WIT
THIS TIME LAST YEAR.
SO WHAT'S HAPPENED IN THE LAST
12 TO 18 MONTHS?
>> ONE THING THAT'S HAPPENIN
THAT IN ORDER TO HAVE A HEALTH
HOUSING MARKET YOU HAVE TO HAV
A HEALTHY FIRST-TIME BUYER
GROUP.
FIRST-TIME BUYERS ARE THE ENGINE
OF THE HOUSING MARKET AN
THEY'VE BEEN LOCKED OUT OF THI
MARKET BY VARIOUS THINGS AND ONE
THING THEY'VE BEEN LOCKED OUT IS
BY A TIGHT LENDING STANDARD AN
WE'RE HEARING ABOUT CREDIT
EASING AND IT'S STILL PRETTY
DARN TOUGH TO GET ONE.
ALSO, THEY'RE BEING LOCKED OUT
BY HIGH PRICES AND INVENTORIES
ARE PRETTY LOW SO PRICES ARE
GETTING BID UP
A LOT OF BUYERS ARE MILLENNIAL
AND IF YOU'RE PAYING OFF STUDENT
DEBT THAT'S VIFRPA YOU WILLY THE
EQUIVALENT OF A MORTGAGE PAYMENT
AND SO IT'S HARD TO TAKE O
ANOTHER MORTGAGE PAYMENT
>> THE DISAPPEARING BUYER.
ECONOMISTS LIKE TO CALL THEM
MISSING HO HOUSEHOLDS BECAUS
THESE ARE HOUSEHOLDS THAT WOUL
BE GOING OFF AND BUYING HOME
AND STARTING OFF THEIR FAMILIE
AND WHAT THEY'RE DOING I
THEY'RE RENTING FOR LONGER AND
MANY OF THEM ARE STILL LIVIN
WITH MOM AND DAD
>> SO THIS BRINGS UP THE
INTERESTING QUESTION
IT'S THE CHICKEN AND EGG
QUESTION
WHICH COMES FIRST?
THE STABLE ECONOMY AND PEOPL
WHO DON'T HAVE TO LIVE AT HOME
WITH MOM AND DAD BECAUSE THE
CAN AFFORD TO HAVE A HOUSE AND
THAT WOULD INTRODUCE THE THIRD
FACTOR, YOU CAN'T HAVE A HEALTHY
JOB MARKET AND HEALTHY WAG
GROWTH AND EVEN THOUGH WE'RE
SEEING JOB CREATIONS THESE ARE
LARGELY SERVICE JOB, N
BENEFITS, STAGNATING WAGES AND
NOT THE KIND OF JOBS THAT YO
NEED BECOME A MEMBER OF THE HOME
BUYING CLASS
>> NECESSITY IS THE MOTHER O
INVENTION.
THERE'S A NEW KIND OF HOME BEING
PRESENTED FOR FOLKS LIKE THIS.
THIS IS SO INTERESTING
IT'S CALLED THE EXPRESS HOME
>> THAT'S RIGHT, THE EXPRESS
HOME
D.R. HORTON IS THE COUNTRY'S
LARGEST HOME BUILDER AND T
ADDRESS THE PROBLEM OF THE
FIRST-TIME BUYER BEING LOCKE
OUT THEY CREATED A NEW PRODUCT
CALLED THE EXPRESS HOME.
THIS IS A LOW-PRICED HOME AN
THE ENTIRE HOME WAS DESIGNED FOR
THE FIRST-TIME HOME BUYER,
DESIGNED FOR THE PARENTS TO HELP
THEIR KIDS GET OUT OF THE HOUS
AND TO PROVIDE ENTRY TO TH
CLASS OF BUYERS.
>> WE SHOULD MENTION THIS IS A
BIFURCATED MARKET AND IN PARTS
OF THE COUNTRY THE REAL ESTATE
MARKET IS THROUGH THE ROOF
I LIKE TO REFER TO THE HOUSING
MARKET AND PEOPLE WOULD LIKE T
SAY WHAT'S GOING ON WITH THE
HOUSING MARKET
THERE'S NOT ONE.
THERE'S A MILLION OF THEM THAT
GOES ZIP CODE BY ZIP CODE AND IF
YOU LIVE ON ONE OF THE COAST
CHANCES ARE YOU'RE IN A HOUSIN
MARKET THAT'S GOING NUTS
YOU'RE SEEING FOREIGN INVESTOR
SCOOP UP INVENTORIES
>> CASH BUYERS
>> CASH IS THE NEW FINANCE
IT'S HARD TO COMPETE WITH A CASH
BUYER IF YOU'RE COMING IN WITH A
MORTGAGE
>> MICHELLE CONLIN FROM REUTERS,
THANKS FOR THE INSIGHT
>> THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
♪♪
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT IN AN EFFORT TO PROVID
MORE CONTEXT TO YOU ABOUT TH
CURRENT CRISIS, WE LOOK INTO THE
LONG, COMPLICATED RELATIONSHIP
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND UKRAINE
IT'S ONE THAT GOES BACK 1,00
YEARS.
FOR SHARED HISTORIES ESPECIALL
RELEVANT BECAUSE VLADIMIR PUTI
NOTED UKRAINE USED TO BE PART OF
RAUSCH AND BECAUSE OF THAT
RUSSIA MIGHT TAKE PART OF IT
BACK
WE ASKED NEWS HOUR KAREN
THOMPSON TO UNTANGLE THI
COMPLEX RELATIONSHIP AND ONE
THAT SOMETIMES HAS BEEN CLOS
AND OTHER TIMES STRANGED, BU
RARELY EQUAL
>> AS THE ACCUSATIONS AN
WARNINGS FROM BOTH EAST AN
WESTMOUNT, AS THE PACE O
VIOLENCE IN UKRAINE INTENSIFIE
AND THE PROSPECTS OF WAR GROW,
PEOPLE LIVE IN WHAT IS NOW
UKRAINE FIND THEMESES IN A
FAMILIAR, UNCOMFORTABL
POSITION, SEEMINGLY AT THE MERCY
OF A MUCH MORE POWERFU
NEIGHBOR
IN THIS CASE, THE RUSSIANS
THEIRS IS A TANGLE
RELATIONSHIP, SOMETIMES CLOSE,
OTHER TIMES STRAINED, BUT RARELY
EQUAL.
IN FACT, THE CONNECTIONS BETWEEN
THE TWO COUNTRIES RUN DEEP
THROUGH MARRIAGE, RELIGION
CULTURE AND LANGUAGE
>> CAN YOU JUST WALK ME THROUG
ALL OF THE THINGS THAT HAV
BOUND UKRAINE AND RUSSIA
TOGETHER THROUGHOUT HISTORY?
>> ONE IS UKRAINIAN AND RUSSIA
LANGUAGES ARE QUITE SIMILAR.
MANY UKRAINIANS ARE BILINGUAL,
TELEVISION PROGRAMS AN
CONTEMPORARY UKRAINE OFTEN
SWITCH BACK AND FORTH DEPENDIN
HOW UKRAINIAN AND RUSSIA
>> TIMOTHY FRYE IS FROM COLUMBIA
UNIVERSITY, IT'S ONE OF TH
LEADING RUSSIAN STUDY CENTERS IN
THE NATION
>> THERE'S LOTS OF UKRAINIAN
WHO SPEAK RUSSIAN AS THEIR FIRST
LANGUAGE AND IN LESSER CAS
THERE ARE MANY RUSSIANS WHO ALSO
SPEAK UKRAINIAN AND LANGUAGE I
AN IMPORTANT PART OF THE
EQUATION
>> THE TIES BETWEEN THE TWO DATE
BACK TO THE ESTABLISHMENT OF A
STATE BEFORE THE YEAR 1 THOSE.
THE AREA EXTENDED ALL OF THE WAY
TO MOSCOW.
>> IN ITS HEYDAY IT WAS ONE OF
THE MOST IMPORTANT, IF NOT THE
MOST IMPORTANT STATE IN EUROPE
>> HE IS A SCIENCE PROFESSOR A
RUTGERS UNIVERSITY
>> BOTH NATIONS REFER TO KIE
AND RUTH AS THE PLACE WHERE THEY
WERE BORN AND IT EXISTED FOR
ABOUT 200, 300 YEARS, GIVE O
TAKE
SORT OF IN THE MIDDLE OF THE
13th CENTURY WITH THE MONO GOA
ATTACK WHICH FELL APART.
>> ONCE THAT HAPPENED FOR TH
NEXT SEVERAL CENTURY, PARTS OF
THE AREA NOW KNOWN AS UKRAIN
WAS OVERRUN WITH FOREIGN POWER
AND THE LITHUANIANS AND TH
OTTOMANS AND THE RUSSIANS.
>> SINCE 1700, GIVE OR TALK
FEW YEARS, THE CONSENSUS AGAIN
IS THAT UKRAINE HAS BEEN PART OF
THE RUSSIAN EMPIRE TO PUT
SPECIFIC DATE ON IT IT WAS I
1709 WITH THE REPEATER OF TH
GREAT DEFEATED CHARLES 12th OF
SWEDEN WHO WAS ALIGNED WITH TH
UKRAINIAN LEADER AND IT'S FROM
THAT MOMENT, APPROXIMATELY THA
UKRAINE'S VIRTUALLY TOTA
INCORPORATION INTO THE RUSSIAN
EMPIRE OCCURS AND IT'S AT THAT
MOLE, AS WELL THAT THE CONSENSUS
VIEW IS THAT UKRAINE BECAME TH
E GIVE LENT OF A COLONY.
>> IN THE LATE 1700s THE
SOUTHERN AND EASTERN PORTIONS OF
UKRAINE WAS TAKEN BY THE RUGS.
IT'S CALLED THE NEW RUSSIA PUTIN
REFERRED TO RECENTLY AND I
STAYED IN RUSSIAN CONTROL UNTI
THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION IN 1914
THAT WAS THE FIRST TIME THAT
PART OF THE AREA NOW UKRAINE
TRIED TO DECLARE INDEPENDENCE.
HISTORIANS STILL ARGUE OVER TH
DETAILS.
BUT IN THE EARLY 1920s THE
UKRAINIAN SOCIALIST REPUBLIC WAS
FORMED AS PART OF THE NEW SOVIET
UNION WHERE IT REMAINED SIDE B
SIDE WITH RUSSIA FOR THE NEXT 70
YEARS.
EVEN THERE, RELATIONS WERE OFTEN
FRAUGHT.
STALIN'S COLLECTIVIZATION OF UKS
CRANIAN FARMS IN THE 1930s LED
TO A GREAT FAMINE AND MILLIONS
OF DEATHS.
THIS IS AN AREA THAT HAS LON
BEEN KNOWN AS THE BREAD BASKET
OF THE REGION AND DURING WORLD
WAR IRK I, MANY IN WESTERN
UKRAINE SIDE THE WITH THE NAZIS,
NOT THE KREMLIN.
>> A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE
ANTI-RUSSIAN, ANTI-SOVIETS AND
BECAUSE STALLEN STARVED TH
UKRANIANS AND THEY NEVER FORGOT.
>> GERMANY IN 1941 OCCUPIE
ENTIRE UKRAINE
THEY IMMEDIATELY ENSLAVED LARG
PORTIONS OF THE POPULATION WIT
THE HELP OF UKRAINE IT WAS THE
ENTIRE JEWISH POPULATION O
UKRAINE AND A LOT OF FORCE
LABOR BACKED GERMANY TO HELP
WORK IN THE WAR INDUSTRY
AFTER THE WAR, UKRAINE, TH
SECOND MOST POPULIST SOVIE
REPUBLIC ENJOYED AN ALMOST
SPECIAL STATUS WITHIN THE 15
REPUBLICS OF THE U.S.S.R
>> THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN TH
RUSSIANS AND UKRANIANS WAS MUC
CLOSER THAN ANY OTHER NICK
GROUP.
>> NIKITA KRUSCHEV CEDED CRIME
TO UKRAINE
DURING THE NEXT ON 40 YEARS,
PEOPLE IN THE UKRAINE WERE
REPRESENTED IN THE SOVIET ELITE.
AND BRESHNEV, WHO PRESIDED OVE
THE SOVIET UNION FOR TWO DECADES
WAS ACTUALLY BORN IN UKRAINE
KIMBERLY MARTIN WAS A POLITICA
SCIENCE PROFESSOR AT COLUMBI
UNIVERSITY AND BARNARD COLLEGE
>> IF YOU GO THROUGH WHO THE
PERSONNEL WERE IN TOP-RANKIN
POSITIONS IN BOTH OF THE
POLITICS OF THE COMMUNIST PART
AND ALSO IN TERMS OF WHO WER
THE THE INDUSTRIAL LEADERS, WH
WERE THE MILITARY LEADERS AN
WHO WERE THE LEADERS IN TH
ARTS, AND PEOPLE WHO CAME FROM
SLAVIC BACKGROUNDS SO RUSSIANS
UKRAINIANS CERTAIN LOOKY HAD A
DISPROPORTIONATE LEVEL OF BEIN
FAVORED AT THE TOP
>> FRYE SAID THIS WA
PARTICULARLY TRUE WHEN IT CAME
TO CULTURE
UKRANIAN HIGH CULTURE WA
SOMETHING THAT WAS PRIZED IN THE
SOVIET PERIOD.
IT WAS A MIX BETWEEN RUSSIAN
KIND OF LOOKING DOWN ON TH
UKRAINIANS AS THEIR LITTLE
BROTHERS AND AT THE SAME TIM
CELEBRATING THE HIGH CULTURE
PARTICULARLY IN THE SOVIET
PERIOD
>> WHEN THE SOVIET UNION CAM
APART IN THE '90s UKRAINE BECAME
AN INDEPENDENT COUNTRY
BY THEN THE TIES BETWEEN THE
UKRAINIANS AND RUSSIANS HA
ONLIEN DOENED.
IN THE SOVIET PERIOD LOTS OF
PEOPLE STUDIED IN MOSCOW AND
THEN WERE SENT TO OTHE
REPUBLICS AND THEY MET SPOUSES
THERE AND PUT DOWN ROOTS AND
THIS WAS A COMMON WAY FO
RUSSIANS AND UKRAINIANS GIVE
THE SIMILARITIES IN THE LANGUAGE
TO INTERMARRY AND TO HAVE LETS
OF FAMILIAL TIES
>> MANY RUSSIANS AND UKRAIIANS
SHARE A FAITH IN ORTHODO
CHRISTIANITY
MANY READ EACH OTHER'S
LITERATURE AS WELL
IN FACT, A 2001 CENSUS SHOWE
RUSSIAN WAS A NATIVE LANGUAG
FOR A MAJORITY OF PEOPLE I
CRIMEA, LUHANSK AND DONETS
WHERE UTSCH IN OF THE VIOLENCE
IS OCCURRING
DESPITE THE REFERENCES
THROUGHOUT UKRAINE'S
INDEPENDENCE, THERE HAS BEEN
STRIVE BETWEEN UKRAINIANS AN
RUSSIANS
>> YOU HAVE TO BEAR IN MIND THAT
FOR ALL OF THE CLEAVAGES BETWEEN
EAST AND WEST IN UKRAINE, FOR 23
YEARS, UKRAINE MANAGED TO GOVERN
ITSELF NOT VERY WELL WITH LOTS
OF CORRUPTION AND VERY POOR,
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE, BU
WITHOUT VIOLENCE, WITHOU
SEPARATIST MOVEMENTS AND IT'
ONLY IN THESE LAST THREE MONTH
THAT WE'VE SEEN VIOLENCE ON TH
SCALE THAT WE ARE CURRENTL
SEEING
>> FIRST, WITH THE HUGE,
PROWESTERN RALLY IN KIEV THA
SPARKED THE VIOLENT CRACKDOW
LEAVING TO THE OUSTER OF VIKTO
YANUKOVYCH FOLLOWED BY RUSSIA'
SEIZING OF CRIMEA.
SEVERAL WEEKS LATER THOS
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS OCCUPIED
GOVERNMENT BUILD AND CITIES IN
EASTERN UKRAINE WHERE THEY
REMAIN TODAY
SOME OF THE ARMED MASKED MEN
REPORTEDLY HAVE CLOSE TIES T
THE RUSSIAN MILITARY AND SPECIAL
FORCES
IF PUTIN IS BEHIND ALL OF THIS
WHAT'S MOTIVATING HIM?
>> TO GET INTO PUTIN'S MIND READ
WHAT HE READS.
>> MARIA IS A PH.D CANDIDATE I
POLITICAL SCIENCE.
SHE WROTE A PIECE ON HOW EARLY
20th CENTURY, THE PHILOSOPHERS
MAY BE INFLUENCING PUTIN'S
ACTIONS.
WRITING IS A SIGN TO RUSSIAN
REGIONAL GOVERNORS TO READ
THEY SAY THAT RUSSIA IS
HISTORICALLY, VERY POWERFU
CIVILIZATION THAT HAS THIS GOA
OF PRESERVING ITS TRADITIONA
VALUE AND DEFINING ITSEL
AGAINST THE AGGRESSION OF TH
WEST AND RUSSIA HAS TO PROTECT
THE NEIGHBORING COUNTRIES AN
TRADITIONAL INFLUENCE SUCH A
UKRAINE, FOR EXAMPLE, AND WE CAN
SEE PUTIN IS FOLLOWING THA
PRETTY CLOSELY
>> HE'S OFFERING THIS NEW IDEA
THAT IS IDENTIFIED AS TH
RUSSIAN LANGUAGE AND PEOPLE WITH
THE RUSSIAN CULTURE AND IT
SOUNDED LIKE HE'S TRYING T
RE-CREATE.
>> WHICH IS IN MIND OF WHA
PRESIDENT PUTIN TOLD FORME
PRESIDENT GEORGE W. BUSH I
YOU HAVE TO UNDERSTAND, GEORGE
UKRAINE IS NOT EVEN A COUNTRY.
>> THAT ALSO FITS CLOSELY WITH
PUTIN'S RECENT REMARKS IN
CALL-IN PROGRAM.
>> Translator: I WOULD LIKE TO
REMIND YOU THAT WHAT WAS CALLE
NOVORECEA, DONETSK, AND ODESSA
WERE NOT PART OF UKRAINE BAC
THEN
THESE TERRITORIES WERE GIVEN T
U KRIN CRANE BY THE SOVIET
GOVERNMENT
NEW RUSSIA TOIC DESCRIBE AN AREA
THAT'S AN ARC LARGING CHANGE AND
THAT'S JUST ONE SMALL POINT IN
HISTORICAL BACKGROUND THAT HE'
GIVING UP, BUT IT SEEMS TO BE
JUSTIFICATION TO THE RUSSIAN
PEOPLE ABOUT TAKING FURTHE
AGGRESSIVE ACTIONS
WHEN YOU START TALKING ABOUT
NOVORECEA ON TOP OF EVERYTHING
ELSE AND IT IS UNCLEAR WHA
BE, INCLUDING THE BIG OF THE
QUESTION OF ALL WHETHER THOS
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RUSSIAN
TROOPS MASKED ON THE UKRAINIAN
BOARD WILL INVADE OR NOT, LIKE
THEY HAVE THROUGHOUT HISTORY
UKRAINIANS WILL HAVE TO WAIT AND
SEE WHAT A MORE POWERFUL NATIO
WILL DO.
>> IT WAS ALWAYS A PAWN BETWEE
GREAT POWERS THROUGHOUT IT
HISTORY AND THAT, I THINK, I
SOMETHING THAT'S NOT GOING TO GO
AWAY AND NOW IT'S SHARP BETWEE
THE EUROPEAN UNION, WESTER
EUROPE, NATO AND RUSSIA AND IT'S
QUITE ULTIMATELY A QUESTION OF
NATIONAL IDENTITY AND WHERE DOES
UKRAINE BELONG
>> TAKE AN ONLINE JOURNE
THROUGH UKRAINIAN HISTORY,
VIEWER SLIDE SHOW AT
NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>> THIS IS PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND" SUNDAY.
>>> IT'S ONE OF THOSE STORIE
THAT COMES AND GOES WITH LITTL
ATTENTION PAID
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT NATIONAL
PARK WEEK.
IT'S AROUND THIS TIME EVERY YEAR
THAT THE DEPARTMENT OF INTERIO
DESIGNATES NEW NATIONAL HISTORIC
LANDMARKS.
THERE ARE ROUGHLY 2500 OF THEM
ON THE LIST.
BUILDINGS, PROPERTIES AN
OBJECTS THAT REPRESENT IMPORTANT
ASPECTS OF AMERICAN HISTORY.
THIS PAST WEEK, FOUR MORE WERE
ADDED TO THE LIST.
>> IN DETROIT ICONIC MURALS BY
DIEGO RIVERA CONSIDERED SOME O
HIS FINEST WORK, THEY'RE CALLE
DETROIT INDUSTRY AND COVER FOU
WALLS OF THE DETROIT INSTITUTE
OF ARTS.
THE MURALS WERE COMMISSIONED T
CELEBRATE DETROIT'S HISTORY OF
MANUFACTURING ESPECIALLY THE
AUTOMOBILE INDUSTRY AND THEN
THERE'S THE 44-ACRE FARM O
ADELAIDE STEVENSON II LOCATED 35
NORTH OF CHICAGO
A FORMER ILLINOIS GOVERNOR AND
AMBASSADOR TO THE U.N. STEVE
RAN TWICE FOR PRESIDEN
UNSUCCESSFULLY AGAINST DWIGH
EISENHOWERER
HE LIVED THERE MOST OF HIS ADULT
LIFE
GEORGE NABBING SHYMA WAS A
FIGURE IN THE AMERICAN CRAFT
MOVEMENT
MANY OF HIS PIECES SHOWED RA
WOOD WITH IMPERFECTIONS LIKE
CACS AND KNOTS
THE SITE OF A 1956 PLANE CRASH
IN ARIZONA AND TWO PLANE
COLLIDED ALONG A REMOTE PART O
THE GRAND CANYON AND IT WAS TH
DEADLIEST CRASH IN AVIATIO
HISTORY.
IN A CURIOUS TWIST, THE SITE'S
EXACT LOCATION IS SECRET
OFFICIALLY CLOSED FOR YEARS.
THE THE PARK SERVICE TOLD NEWS
HOUR THAT'S THE POLICY FOR
SENSITIVE SITES.
UNLIKE THE OTHER THREE NEW
NATIONAL LANDMARKS IT'S UNLIKELY
THE PUBLIC WILL EVER TOTE GET TO
VISIT THIS ONE
♪
>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ONLINE
TOMORROW ON "THE NEWS HOUR."
WE'LL BRING YOU THE LATEST O
THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE.
THAT'S IT FOR PBS "NEWS HOUR
WEEKEND.
I'M ALISON STEWART
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
-- Captions by VITAC -
www.vitac.co